# Ford GoBike System Data exploration 
> This simple analysis will explore data of the Ford GoBike System Data. We will use descriptive statistics and visualization in order to draw some useful information about this dataset. This project is created for Udacity Data Analyst NanoDegree Programme.


## About the dataset

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. 



## The choice of ML model for the API
In order to analyze bike rental system, basic statistical tools and visualisations have been used. In order to properly use training dataset, initial Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) was carried out.
It allowed to learn more about the dataset and decide what kind of data transformations has to be applied in the features engineering process. The EDA phase was followed by the features engineering process in order to carry out explanatory analyses. It allowed to draw several useful insights about the dataset.

## Author
Teodor Wisniewski

