# Ford GoBike System Data exploration 
> This simple analysis will explore data of the Ford GoBike System Data. We will use descriptive statistics and visualization in order to draw some useful information about this dataset.


## About the dataset

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. 


The data was downloaded from kaggle.com (<https://www.kaggle.com/c/bike-sharing-demand>)
and it can be found in _data_ directory in the following _csv_ file:
```sh
train.csv
```

## The choice of ML model for the API
In order to predict bike rental demand, the random forest model has been used. In order to properly use training dataset, initial Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA) was carried out.
It allowed to learn more about the dataset and decide what kind of data transformations has to be applied in the features engineering process.
The EDA can be found in the _scripts_ directory in the jupyter notebook file:

```sh
part1_exploratory_data_analyses_Bike_Sharing_Demand.ipynb
```



The EDA phase was followed by the features engineering process in order to improve the performance of machine learning algorithms. Then, 3 machine learning models have been trained in order to choose the optimal one for our application:
1. Linear Regression
2. Random Forest Model
3. GradientBoosting

Finally, the Random Forest has been chosen for this API. The feature engineering process and the training of 3 models are presented in the _scripts_ directory in the following jupyter notebook file:
```sh
part2_training_testing_the_model_Bike_Sharing_Demand.ipynb
```


## Author
Teodor Wisniewski

